All right, now we're going to get
into the React side of things
where we're gonna be writing queries
to both pull down a list of items, to update items,
to add new items, to delete items,
we're gonna do the whole crud of our items,
and then we'll sort of go back and forth
and do that throughout the rest of the course
with orders and cart and buying things
and charging credit cards and sending email
and all that good stuff.
So let's get up and running.
Just to show you real quick,
the homepage is going to be the list
of the four most recent items,
and then when you click on shop
it's gonna bring us to /items,
and it's also going to be,
so these are gonna be the exact same page,
and then as we go through to page two,
it's gonna be the items page with a query param of page two
being passed over there.
So, actually what we wanna do is open up index.js,
which is the homepage.
And we wanna go into our pages folder
and we're going to make a new file called items.js as well.
And all we're going to do is import Home from index.
And then export default Home.
So the way that we can reuse the same page
from multiple pages is simply just to import that
and then export it immediately.
And if we go to our application now and we go to items.
Actually, what did we call it here?
We called it shop.
Let's change that real quick.
We'll go to nav.js,
and let's call that shop.
There we go.
Now we click on shop.
It brings me to /items and it's still
showing me the index homepage, good.
So we'll close down nav, we'll close down items.
Now what we're gonna do here on our index.js,
we can actually remove this link tag here.
We're going to create a component that's called item.
So go into your components folder,
make a new file called the items.js I.
Gonna scaffold out a component rcc tab, there we go.
And we create a component called items.
Now we are importing React and the component.
We also need to import query from React Apollo,
'cause that's what's going to allow us
to actually query data directly into this component,
and then let's just give ourselves a div inside of that,
just paragraph, say items.
Now we'll go back into our index.js
and import that items.
And go ahead and use it.
There we go.
So now our items component is showing up.
We can double check in our React dev tools
that our items is there, beautiful.
That's our component.
Now most of our work is going to be done in the items.js.
I can close down any other files that we have.
All right, so first thing we wanna do
is let's just get some data on the page
and learn how to actually query some stuff
from our Apollo store before we can get into styling
and looping over and what not.
The first thing that we need to do is write a query.
And the way that you can write a query in this
is by using the GraphQL tag.
So we will import gql from GraphQL tag.
And then we are going to make a query.
Now there's a couple options that we have here.
Some people like to put their queries in a separate file
and leave them in a queries file
and then import them into that file as you need it,
or what I like to do, and this is what comes recommended
from the Apollo devs, is that just locate the queries
in the actual files where you're going
to be doing the querying,
and then if you need to access that query in multiple files
then you can just export it from one of those
and import it into the rest.
So, that's exactly what we're gonna be doing.
I'm a big fan of just putting everything in the same file
until it becomes a problem and then refactoring it out.
So say const ALL_ITEMS_QUERY,
and it's sort of a best practice
to put all of your queries in caps.
And we say = gql back text.
So this works the exact same way that style components works
is that we write our queries in a string
and then you just tag it with a gql.
So make sure that you use back ticks here.
And then in here we just write the query.
We are going to name all of our queries,
and what I like to do is name them the same thing
as the actual variable that it lives in,
just for your own sanity's sake,
because then you're gonna be having query variables,
you're gonna be having names of queries,
and then you're also going to have the name of the query
or the mutation that's on the client side,
and it can get out of hand real quick.
So we're going to call it ALL_ITEMS_QUERY,
and then inside of that we simply just start
to write the query as if we were doing it in the playground.
So we're gonna say we want the items
and for all of the items we want to pull the ID,
the title, the price, the description,
the image, and the large image.
So we have listed out all of the fields
that we want to return.
Remember with GraphQL you only pull in
exactly what you need.
If there's anything in that item
that you don't necessarily want,
you leave it off your actual query.
Now the way that we use this query
is via something called a Render Prop.
We previously had imported this query,
and that's actually a component in itself.
So previously in versions of React Apollo,
or you may have used other libraries,
they use what's called a high-order component
where when you export this item,
maybe you would take that off,
and you'd say export default Items.
Then what would happen is you would make a function
that was called like withItems,
and then you would wrap your component
with this high-order component,
and then that would expose a list of items via a prop.
And then if you had multiple you could compose multiple.
That's how redux works.
However, what's becoming more popular now
in the React world is something called a Render Prop
where you don't have to mess with high-order components,
you simply just put a component inside of here
that is a query and then the child of that component
is going to be a function that gives you
either loading state, an error,
or the actual list of items itself.
Now, this can get a little bit hairy
with all of the curly brackets and what not,
so stick with me and we'll show you one quick example.
I find that most people's initial reaction to Render Props
are that they don't like it.
But I do find that after a while I start to like it,
or maybe I'm just drinking the Kool-Aid.
So this is the recommended way to do it via Apollo.
Apollo does also have a high-order component.
But at the time of recording,
they are really pushing the Render Prop
as well as you don't get the error and loading states
with mutations on high-order components.
That's another reason to go Render Prop.
So we're gonna go down here,
and we are going to give ourselves a query component.
Then the query component takes a query prop itself,
and then you pass it the,
you pass it the name of your query.
So our's is called ALL_ITEMS_QUERY,
then inside of your actual query,
you don't just go ahead and start like giving yourself
a paragraph tag or something like that.
You must, the only child of a query component,
must be a function.
So the way that we do that in React,
and this is where it starts to get a little bit hairy,
is you give yourselves a set
of curly brackets to note to React that.
Okay, now I'm switching from JSX land
over to JavaScript land.
And then inside of that we write a function
where it gives us a number, like what's called a payload.
So we give it an arrow function.
Let's just do that right now.
And then that arrow function gives us a payload.
And then inside of here we can go ahead and
let's just console.log the payload,
and then from this we need to return some sort of JSX
that will be rendered as the child.
So return a paragraph that says,
hey, I'm the child of query.
Give that a save.
You see how my,
oh I got an error but,
you see how it took off the,
I had the parentheses here and then as I save it
that's just my prettier saying,
okay, if you only have one argument of an arrow function,
it's not necessary.
If there was two things, like another one,
it would not actually remove those,
but that's just a prettier setting that I have
that will automatically format them.
So we got a little bit of an error here,
what have we got here?
Check the render method of items.
Element type is invalid.
Expected a string for built-in components
or a class function for composite components
but got undefined.
Okay, so let's take a look here.
So I just stopped for a second to try
to debug what was going on and it turned out
that I just had to refresh the page.
Sometimes the hot reloading can get into a weird spot
where it catches an error and is not able to recover itself.
So if you ever do get into one of these errors
that you don't understand what it is,
just give your page a refresh
and see if that's what it is first.
So here we have query.
We're running it, we should now see in the console
a payload, ho ho, there we go.
This is our payload and what's inside of it?
Well there's tons of stuff inside of here.
There is some methods for refetching that query.
There's some methods for polling
where you could poll it every however many seconds
and kind of get like semi-real time data.
Apollo also has the ability to do real-time data as well.
You get access to the client.
This is the actual Apollo client itself.
That's where all the data is stored.
But the things that we are interested in here
is three things, data that contains an array
of the return data from our query.
In our case we just asked for items.
So it's returning just those items.
And you can see that the two of our items are in there.
That's good.
Error undefined, so if something went wrong here,
then it would actually return us an error,
and then the loading is going to be either true or false,
and what that will do is this little Boolean
will flip to true when it is doing some sort of work,
and in most cases this is always going to be false
because we are server side rendering,
so it's gonna wait until that is flipped over to true,
but we will be using that quite a bit on the client side.
So that's what we have here.
We have this payload and what is fairly common to do
is instead of saying like payload.error, payload.data,
payload.loading, what we do is you can destructure
the values that you want out of payload
into their own variables immediately.
So what we do is first put some parentheses around payload,
and then second we are going to destructure payload
into data, error, and loading.
And this is why people don't necessarily
like using Render Props because what this does
is it gives you a lot of curly brackets here and there.
I have this like rainbow curly bracket extension turn on
in VS code where I have them as different colors.
You might wanna turn that on.
I'm not sure if I totally love it just yet.
But if you have a problem with lots of curly brackets
it's worth stopping and just peeling back the layers
of what each of the curly brackets do.
So now what we can do is change this out.
Data, and here we could say return this,
I found data.items.length items.
There we go.
I found two items.
Looking good.
Now what we need to do here is,
generally what I'll do is I'll say if loading returned
paragraph loading...
If error returned error
otherwise we return the data.
And it's really important to first check for loading
or checking for error in your components
before you actually go ahead and assume
that the data is there,
because if you do this before,
you might not have items,
you might not have data and you might not have items
and then it's going to tell you cannot read property items
of undefined or cannot read property length of undefined,
and you're gonna get into some weird issues.
So always check if you're in the loading or the error state.
We're also gonna get into situations
where we do still want to render this out
as well as show the error message.
Let's scaffold this out and get some stuff
showing up on the page.
First thing we wanna do is center all this
and this made me laugh when I was working on it,
'cause we're gonna write some styled components.
So we'll say import styled from styled-components,
and I'm gonna make a center tag like it's 1991.
So const Center is equal to styled.div.
And I'm just going to put a text line center on there
and I'm gonna swap out this div here with a center tag.
And that should center it, good.
We're gonna make an items list component.
So const ItemsList is equal to styled.div.
And we'll display grid,
grid template columns, 1fr, 1fr,
grid-gap,
60px,
max-width.
And here, remember if we look at our page.js,
you remember that we had the max-width
in here from the theme.
So we're simply going to pull that via props.
So we interpolate a little function here,
and then we access props.theme.max.
What was it?
Max width
margin zero auto.
Then we take this items list here.
We're just gonna remove this here.
We're gonna return an items list
and then inside of that we're
going to have each of our items.
So we can take our data,
just data.items.map,
and for each item were just gonna map over it.
We're gonna loop over and remember this is how you
loop over items in React.
You take an array of things and you map over it,
and for each item in the array,
we're going to return something else.
So let's just say, let's just do a paragraph tag for now,
and we'll interpolate the item.title.
We've got our items showing up.
Doesn't look like they're beside each other.
Let's take a quicklook at our css.
Oh grid-template-columns,
not grid-auto-columns,
and there we go, that puts them side by side.
We can go ahead and remove this paragraph tag here.
And now's the point where we don't want to go any further
with rendering out the item in this
because this is a component for just fetching
and looping over the items.
Then we want to create a new component
called item, singular,
that is going to do the heavy lifting of rendering that out.
So go under component, so create a new file called item.js,
and we will say rccp.
What that does is it imports React
as well as a prop-types package,
and on that we are going to say the one prop type
that we are expecting is called item.
We are going to say PropTypes.object.isRequired.
You can go a little bit further with that
instead of using object because it could be any object.
You could shape that object by saying PropTypes.shape.
And inside of that you could say it needs a title,
which is a PropTypes.string.isRequired,
and you can duplicate that and change that to price,
and that could be a number.
And you get the point.
Or you could shape out the entire item.
I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time on PropTypes
paths just putting them in here in this course
just because this is an advanced course.
You should know all about PropTypes and how to use them.
You don't want to see me doing typing
for 20 hours worth of typing.
So I'm gonna bring that back to just a regular old object.
We need a couple more imports up here.
We need a title.
These are a couple styles
that we need to import the ItemStyles and the PriceTag.
And we're gonna import those all.
Say import from styles/ the name of the actual file.
Then we'll go down inside of our render here.
Before we return it we'll say const item = this.props.item.
Or we could just go ahead
and destructure this.props like that.
Good, and then we will, from this,
we will return itemStyles.
And inside of that we give ourselves a title tag.
And let's just say item.title.
Let's just see if that works for us now.
We'll go back to our items right here
where we're looping it over.
We'll import that newly created component.
Import item from
item.
And then we'll go down here and replace this loop right here
with an actual item tag,
so doo doo doo doo,
get rid of that.
Place it with an item tag,
and the item tag needs an item pass to it,
which is item, said the word item a lot,
and it probably also needs a key.
Let's just double check and see if it's complaining at us.
There we go.
Each child in an array or iterator
should have a unique key prop.
So any time that you are looping over
and spitting out multiple elements as siblings,
and they are the same component,
you must also give it a key prop.
So the key can be anything that is unique,
as long as it is unique.
And ideally you wouldn't also use the index of the item
because if one of the items is removed from the array
then all of them change and all of them re-render,
so what we want to do is use something else that's unique.
You could use the title of an item
if they're all gonna be unique,
but in this case we have the item.id.
And that is for sure going to be unique.
Now if you refresh this it's not yelling at us, good.
So we have each of our items showing up.
Let's double check, we'll go to React dev tools
and we'll search for item.
There we go.
We see inside of our items.
We have items_Center.
It's out of the query, you have your items list.
Inside of that you have your R2 items
that we're working with
and the props are being passed
into the actual item that we have here.
This is kind of interesting as well.
This __typename gets passed in.
You'll notice that we never queried that in items.js,
like see in here we never query call typename.
That is one thing that Apollo
will automatically add for you,
and the typename is obviously the name
of the type of the thing that we are querying.
In our case it's an item, but it might be an order
or it might be a user.
It could be any specific type that we have.
Good, let's go back to our item.js
and actually render out the rest of that.
So this is just going to be React for a little bit more.
I'm gonna wrap this item.title in a link tag,
and inside of that we'll put the item.title,
and we know that we have to also wrap that in an anchor link
that has, it's just an a tag that has nothing in it.
Now our link is, oh, we gotta obviously import link.
So import link from next link,
and then I always like to put my npm imports
above any of my relative path imports.
Now this link here,
normally we just do something like href equals
and we /item.
In our case we actually wanna put a query param on the end,
so the way that we can do that
is instead of passing a string to href,
we can pass an object.
So we use double here.
The reason being is that in JSX if you want to
pass reference to something,
like you had a variable, you'd just say item,
but if you actually just want to be an object literal,
the first set is telling it you
wanna pass reference to something
or you are using JavaScript.
And the second set is the actual object literal.
Inside of that we say pathname, all lowercase,
is going to be /item.
That's the URL that when someone clicks on that,
that's where they're gonna go,
and then the query that comes along with that,
like the URL, the question mark, whatever,
is going to be the ID.
It's item.id.
So I'll see if that works.
See, when I click on it now you see that the URL changes
to item and then we put the query param on top of that.
I'll talk about that real quick right now.
Next.js does not have the ability
to do what's called pretty URLs.
So we couldn't do item/shoes.
There are some external packages,
there's three or four of 'em that will do that for you,
but that requires you to get into custom servers,
and I do believe they will add that at some point,
so I'm not gonna get into custom packages.
I'm gonna keep it strict Next.js right now,
and you can always investigate those packages yourself.
So we have this anchor link here.
That's good for our title.
We also want a price tag underneath that.
So we will use a PriceTag component.
Inside of that we are going to put the item.price.
Let's go back to our shop page
and see what we're working with.
There we go.
We got 1000 in that.
That's not formatted nice.
So how do we format that?
Well, in the lib folder,
the lib folder is where I like
to put any of my like utility things.
They're not necessarily enough
to make a separate npm package,
but they are reasonable throughout our entire application.
I have this function called formatMoney,
and what this does is it takes in an amount
and is going to return to you a formatted as a US currency.
This is using the Intl.NumberFormat function,
and it's formatting it to US currency standards.
You can swap that out with your own currency
if you would like to do that.
Then we will go up here and we'll import that.
Import formatMoney from lib formatMoney.
Now go down here and just wrap that price
in a formatMoney function.
And oh, that is form, from.
Below that we're gonna give ourselves a paragraph tag.
Let me close this up.
And that is just going to have the item.description.
Pretty good.
And then below that we're going to have
a div with a class of buttonList,
which is going to have a link to three different things.
First is going to be the edit.
So we'll say, let's give ourselves
the anchor link inside of that.
We don't need the href on the actual link itself.
And we'll just say edit, pencil.
Don't email me about what this is.
Go to wesbos.com/uses and that will tell you
what little emoji thing I use.
I probably get about 700 emails a day
about what emoji picker I use.
Link is going to be href or href,
the pathname is going to be update,
and then the query is going to be the same as before.
The ID is the item ID.
Oh, I goofed up.
This is an object, not an equal sign.
There we go.
And if I click on that it should bring us to the update page
where the ID is passed along.
Obviously it's not gonna work yet, 404s,
because we don't have that page built just yet.
That's fine.
Underneath that we are going to,
we're just going to have a button that says Add To Cart.
We'll build that later and then
we'll have another button that says delete.
And we have those three items being shown up there.
The last thing that we need is the image.
And we don't have images for these two just yet.
So we can go up here and we'll give curly brackets.
We'll say if there is an item.image
then, and this is kind of a little nifty one,
we just do an image tag where the source
is equal to the item.image.
And then the alt of that image is going to be
equal to the item.title.
Now, what is this little nifty tree I just did here?
Well, what it's going to do is it's going to check
if there is an item image and if that is there
that will evaluate to true,
meaning that this will actually run in return.
If there is no item image that's gonna evaluate to false,
and this will never actually run.
So another way that you could do that in JSX
is with a turnerare, turnre, turnerey, turnerary,
I don't know how to say that and it drives people nuts,
but you can say item.image.
If that is there then you can
give yourselves your image tag.
Otherwise, you can just return null.
So one little kinda cool way of getting around that
not returning null is by simply just
using the double ampersand there.
So it's the two little ways to do
if statements inside of JSX.
So this is looking pretty good.
Obviously we don't have images just yet,
and these are broken 'cause we did say that we have dog.jpg,
but it's not there.
In the next video we're actually
going to build the sell page,
which allows us to have a form,
upload photos, submit our content,
and have that mutation push itself to the backend.
So I'll see you in that video.